---
title: "Web Frameworks for Python"
date: 2020-03-15
excerpt: "Django VS Flask"
mathjax: "true"
categories: webframeworks
tags:
  - Python
  - Flask
  - Django
---

# Web Frameworks for Python
There are a lot of web frameworks available to choose from. Yet there are only two web frameworks which are very popular among Python developers. There are Django and Flask. More details on other Python web frameworks can be check [here](https://wiki.python.org/moin/WebFrameworks)
### Flask VS Django
Thus in the post, will present the comparison between the most popular web frameworks which are Flask and Django.

#### The biggest difference between Flask and Django is:

- Flask implements a bare-minimum and leaves the bells and whistles to add-ons or to the developer
- Django follows a "batteries included" philosophy and gives you a lot more out of the box.

In the nutshell the comparison can be presented in analog like Flask is more like a pirates and Django is more like a Navy.

- Django released in 2005 and Flask released in 2010

## Flask
How to install Flask 
```bash
pip install flask
```
Create a Python file called `flaskhelloworld.py` and insert the following code

```python
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def hello():
  return "Hello, World!"
  
if __name__ == "__main__":
  app.run()
```
Run the command 
```bash
python3 flaskhelloworld.py
```
Application is running on and '127.0.0.1' means that the application is running on local host — it's only accessible on our development machine. If you open a web browser and visit http://127.0.0.1:5000/, you'll see a web page that returns the "Hello, World!" greeting.

## Django
```bash
pip install django
```
Set up the django-admin command. Run the following:
```bash
django-admin startproject hellodjango
```
```bash
python3 manage.py startapp helloworld
```
Open `helloworld/views.py` and the following code:
```python
from django.http import HttpResponse

def index(request):
    return HttpResponse("Hello, World!")
```
