---
title: "Cloud Computing and Data Science"
date: 2020-02-15
excerpt: "Why using Cloud for Data Science"
mathjax: "true"
categories: Cloud
tags:
  - AWS
  - Data Science
  - Machine Learning
  - Cloud
---

# WIP (Work in Progress)
## What is cloud computing?

[Cloud Computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud_computing) is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the Internet.

In the past five years, a shift in Cloud Vendor offerings has fundamentally changed how companies buy, deploy and run big data systems. Cloud Vendors have absorbed more back-end data storage and transformation technologies into their core offerings and are now highlighting their data pipeline, analysis, and modeling tools. This is great news for companies deploying, migrating, or upgrading big data systems. Companies can now focus on generating value from data and Machine Learning (ML), rather than building teams to support hardware, infrastructure, and application deployment/monitoring.

As the technology gets easier to deploy, and the Cloud Vendor data services mature, it becomes much easier to build data-centric applications and provide data and tools to the enterprise. This is good news: companies looking to migrate from on-premise systems to the cloud are no longer required to purchase directly or manage hardware, storage, networking, virtualization, applications, and databases. In addition, this changes the operational focus for a big data systems from infrastructure and application management (DevOps) to pipeline optimization and data governance (DataOps). The following table shows the different roles required to build and run Cloud Vendor-based big data systems.

### Cloud Vendor

- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Microsoft Azure
- Amazon AWS
