---
title: "Basic Python"
date: 2020-02-15
excerpt: "An introduction to Python programming"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
tags:
  - Python
---

*WIP (Work in Progress)*
In this post, I will share some of the Python programming


# The Zen of Python
*by Tim Peters*
```python
import this
```

- Beautiful is better than ugly.
- Explicit is better than implicit.
- Simple is better than complex.
- Complex is better than complicated.
- Flat is better than nested.
- Sparse is better than dense.
- Readability counts.
- Special cases aren't special enough to break the rules.
- Although practicality beats purity.
- Errors should never pass silently.
- Unless explicitly silenced.
- In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess.
- There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.
- Although that way may not be obvious at first unless you're Dutch.
- Now is better than never.
- Although never is often better than *right* now.
- If the implementation is hard to explain, it's a bad idea.
- If the implementation is easy to explain, it may be a good idea.
- Namespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those!

# \_\_main__

# \_\_init__

# decorators
Decorators is a function where we want to decorate a function without changing the original function
```python
def dev(a,b):
    return a/b

dev(2,4)
```
Result
```
0.5
```
Let say we want to execute above function and want to alter the function or add another into the original function, we use decorator
```python
def smart_dev(func):
    def inner_function(a,b):
        if a<b:
            a,b = b,a
        return func(a,b)
    return inner_function

@smart_dev
def dev(a,b):
    return a/b

dev(2,4)
```
Result
```
2
```
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FsAPt_9Bf3U

# Class and object

## Why Class in Python?
To group the data and function for easy to use and build upon

Object is the subset of the class. The object is created by the defined object 
Class Example:
```python
class Class_Name:
  def __init__(self, att_1, att_2, att_3):
    self.att_1 = att_1
    self.att_2 = att_2
    self.att_3 = att_3

  def function_class(self):
    print(self.att_1)
```
## Method
Method is the function associated with the class
Add `self` to each of the method of the class `Class_Name`
```python
def function_class(self):
```
## Constructor
The custome constructor like example below is how to define the attributes in more efficient way
```python
def __init__(self, att_1, att_2, att_3):
```

Therefore to run the example of the `Class` above 
```python
variable1 = Class_Name(att_1, att_2, att_3)
```
# String formatting

There are multiple ways on how you can do string-formatting
Let say we have an output like this
```
My name is Ahmad and I am 20 years old.
```
Example 
```python
person = {'name': 'Ahmad', 'age': 20}
sentence = 'My name is ' + person['name'] + ' and I am ' + str(person['age']) + ' years old.'
```
On the example above, you need to convert the integer to string due to error `TypeError: can only concatenate str (not "int") to str`

You could refer to the date time format based on official documentation of [Python datetime library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes)
```python
import datetime
my_date = datetime.datetime(2016, 9, 24, 12, 30, 45)
sentence = '{0:%B %d, %Y} fell on a {2:%d} and was the {1:%y} day of the year'.format(my_date, my_date, my_date)
```
On the example above you can either add `0` at the beginning of the `:%B %d, %Y` or you put the 3 placeholders but provide only a value to the `format`.
Therefore you can either put 3 values in the `format` or assign only one value to the `format` and add `0:`.

# str() and repr()
str should be readable
repr should be unambigious

# Namedtuple
To increase the readability of the tuple
```python
from collections import namedtuple
```

# argparse
Argparse is used to parse python scripts parameters
```python
import argparse

if __name__ = '__main__':
  # Initialize parser
  parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
  parser.add_argument('')
  # Add the additional parameter and add the parser
  args = parser.parse_args()
```
