---
title: "Data Architecture and Data Science"
date: 2020-02-23
excerpt: "Data Architecture for Data Science"
mathjax: "true"
categories: Machine Learning
tags:
  - AWS
  - Data Science
  - Machine Learning
---

# WIP (Work in Progress)

CAPTURE, STORE, TRANSFORM, PUBLISH, and CONSUME


### Capture
Persistent and resilient data CAPTURE is the first step in any big data system. Cloud Vendors and the community also describe data CAPTURE as ingest, extract, collect, or more generally as data movement. Data CAPTURE includes ingestion of both batch and streaming data. 

### STORE
For big data systems the STORE stage focuses on the concept of a data lake, a single location where structured, semi-structured, unstructured data and objects are stored together. The data lake is also a place to store the output from extract, transform, load (ETL) and ML pipelines running in the TRANSFORM stage. Vendors focus on scalability and resilience over read/write performance. To increase data access and analytics performance, data should be highly aggregated in the data lake or organized and placed into higher performance data warehouses, massively parallel processing (MPP) databases, or key-value stores as described in the PUBLISH stage. In addition, some data streams have such high event volume, or the data are only relevant at the time of capture, that the data stream may be processed without ever entering the data lake.

### TRANSFORM
The heart of any big data implementation is the ability to create data pipelines in order to clean, prepare, and TRANSFORM complex multi-modal data into valuable information. Data TRANSFORM is also described as preparing, massaging, processing, organizing, and analyzing among other things. The TRANSFORM stage is where value is created and, as a result, Cloud Vendors, start-ups, and traditional database and ETL vendors provide many tools. The TRANSFORM stage has three main data pipeline offerings including Batch Processing, Machine Learning, and Stream Processing. In addition, we include the Orchestration offering because complex data pipelines require tools to stage, schedule, and monitor deployments.

ML/AI uses many of the same Batch Processing tools and techniques for data preparation and for the development and training of predictive models. Machine Learning also takes advantage numerous libraries and packages to help optimize data science workflows and provide pre-built algorithms. Big data systems also provide tools to query continuous data streams in near real-time. Some data has immediate value that would be lost waiting for a batch process to run. For example, predictive models for fraud detection or alerts based on data from an IoT sensor. In addition, streaming data is commonly processed, and portions are loaded into a data lake.

### PUBLISH
Once through the data CAPTURE and TRANSFORM stages it is necessary to PUBLISH the output from batch, ML, or streaming pipelines for users and applications to CONSUME. PUBLISH is also described as deliver or serve, and comes in the form of Data Warehouses, Data Catalogs, or Real-Time Stores.

### CONSUME
The value of any big data system comes together in the hands of technical and non-technical users, and in the hands of customers using data-centric applications and products. Vendors also refer to CONSUME as use, harness, explore, model, infuse, and sandbox. We discuss three CONSUME models: Advanced Analytics, Business Intelligence (BI), and Real-Time APIs.
